Watch Ron Paul rallies on the Republican primary campaign trail and the extemporaneous victory speeches the House member gives after each second-, third- or fourth-place finish, and you'll likely see a familiar face somewhere in the background.

It's the other R.P. -- Rand Paul -- the freshman Kentucky senator, son of Rep. Ron Paul and likely recipient of his father's libertarian political legacy when the 76-year-old, 11-term Texan retires next January.

Rep. Paul is on his third doomed try for the White House -- 2012 and 2008 as a Republican and 1988 as a Libertarian. Not even he expects to ever occupy the Oval Office.

But the oldest Republican candidate this time has shown unique success in, among other things, attracting the youngest voters in every contest, not a bad thing long-term for the GOP. And the more the congressman says he has no third party plans this year, the more worried Republican party leaders get.

On Monday son Sen. Paul was returning to Washington via Nashville. His airport security scan detected an anomaly, and the senator was ordered to undergo a full-body patdown. He suggested he just go through the scanner again for a repeat look-see.

Apparently that was insufficient for the TSA agent, who insisted on the more intrusive patdown. You know, because tea party-types can look pretty suspicious. Sen. Paul declined the grope.

What happened next depends on your definition of detain. According to Paul, he was escorted into an airport room long enough to miss his plane and a Washington speech to the annual pro-life rally. Which he considers detaining. The White House does not.

Well, you don't get elected to the U.S. House of Representatives 11 times by missing many opportunities. Paul's father Paul is a longtime opponent of TSA as a "theatrical sham" and blatant freedom violator.

Within hours he'd launched one of his trademark money bombs, a short-term online fundraising drive to "End the TSA Now!"

Rep. Paul has suggested -- well, OK, promised -- that the TSA budget would be part of the $1 trillion he'd cut from federal spending his first year in office.

The Paul campaign, which is skipping campaigning for Florida's Jan. 31 primary to focus more on collecting GOP convention delegates from caucus states where followers' fervor has more impact, hoped to gather perhaps $50,000 off the incident.

"I'm proud of my son's stand," Paul wrote in the appeal. "But just imagine those who receive this kind of treatment every day in our nation's airports and can't fight back? The elderly. The disabled. Little kids. All victims of an out-of-control police state that, while doing nothing to make us safer, is working overtime to strip away our freedoms, our rights and our basic dignity.”

Early this morning, the Paul website reported the "End the TSA Now!" money bomb had passed $167,000.
